docs/GameCodeDetails/GameCodeDetailsSubSections/screens.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Screens
nav_order: 1
parent: Game Code Details
has_children: true
permalink: /GameCodeDetails/Screens
---

# Navigation Structure
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

# Screens

## What is a Screen?

This engine uses a concept of "screens" to split up sections of a game into logical separate classes. Games tend to be heavy on code,
so it is important to use screens as a means to organize different pieces of the game to keep the codebase maintainable and navigable. 
Screens have their own instance variables and `update`/`draw` methods that are crafted specifically for its owned part of the game code.

The `ScreenCoordinator` class, which details on can be found [here](./ScreensSubSections/screen-coordinator.md), is the most important `Screen` in the codebase,
as it's job is to "coordinate" which other `Screens` are loaded at which times based on what needs to happen in the game.

## What is the Screen class?

The `Screen` class is an abstract class provided by the engine, and all screens defined in the game are to extend it and implement its required methods
to ensure they are set up correctly.

## Screen class structure

All screens in this game extend the engine's `Screen` class, which is an abstract class requiring the methods `initialize`, `update`, and `draw`
to be implemented:

```java
public abstract class Screen {
    public abstract void initialize();
    public abstract void update(Keyboard keyboard);
    public abstract void draw(GraphicsHandler graphicsHandler);
}
```

The `ScreenCoordinator` class handles calling the `initialize`, `update`, and `draw` methods for you at the appropriate times in the game loop
for screens that it handles. `Screen` classes can load other screen themselves, in which case it is up to that `Screen` class to add it to
the game loop cycle properly (usually just by calling its `update` and `draw` calls as a part of its own cycle). The `initialize` method
"sets up" a screen and is usually called immediately after the screen is instantiated -- it is very similar to a constructor in this regard, however constructors
cannot be called again while it is often useful to call the `initialize` method again to "reset" a screen. An example of this is resetting a level from the beginning
by calling its `initialize` method and letting it handle re-setting everything up.

The `update` method is passed the `Keyboard` class so it can always be used to detect keyboard input, and the
`draw` method is passed the `GraphicsHandler` class in order to paint to the engine's backing JPanel.]

## How to add a new Screen class?

Start by making a new class in the `Screens` package, where all game screens are defined. From there, extend the engine's base `Screen` class and
implement its methods. Below is an example if an `InstructionsScreen` were to be created:

```java
public class InstructionsScreen extends Screen {

    public void initialize() {
        
    }   

    public void update(Keyboard keyboard) {

    }

    public void draw(GraphicsHandler graphicsHandler) {

    }      
}
```

From there, the code added to those methods should handle setting up the instructions screen resources,
the game logic for the instructions screen, and finally what graphics should be shown on the JPanel while the instruction screen
is loaded.

A way for this screen to be loaded will also need to be added to the game logic, either adding it to the `ScreenCoordniator` or setting up an existing screen to handle it.
The `PlayLevelScreen` is the most bulky screen in this game, but it's a good example of how a screen can be loaded from another screen
(upon beating a level or dying in a level, the `LevelClearedScreen` or `LevelLoseScreen` is loaded up while the `PlayLevelScreen` is still active).

Commit message:

Revamp repo (#57)
* updated collision and how current tile index is checked, updated map collision check response as well

* update map editor to be resizable and have options to show npcs/enemies/enchanced map tiles, add some helper functions, update collisions to use generic map entities for future expansion opportutnites

* players starting position on map can now be set to anything rather than having to specify a tile for more flexibility

* draw cat on title screen map

* update name of method

* update title screen map cat sprite, update map collisions to not check things against themselves, move player animation to a new method

* simplified if statement

* fixed tile retrieval bug, fixed swim animation not showing up, fixed collisions

* condensed code in play level screen, moved bug enemy to proper tile

* update map tile if animated no matter what, commenting

* major class constructor cleanup

* removed defauilt controls in Cat class because they're unneededA

* optimize imports

* website updates

* updated website, added new Frame constructor that doesn't require a delay param

* cleaning up some code, updating site more

* level state update (removing unused enum values), site updates

* updated last part of site

* animated tiles and currently active script are stored and kept track of to make camera update logic more efficient

* updated cat swimming graphic, updated site

* updated about page on site

* update site text

* updated site

* update site, include tile type water in collision handler method

* update comment, remove unused site asset

* fixed bug in map editor where window needed to be validated after menu strip is added

* update site

* update site

* fix site js image load

docs/GameCodeDetails/GameCodeDetailsSubSections/screens.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Screens
nav_order: 1
parent: Game Code Details
has_children: true
permalink: /GameCodeDetails/Screens
---

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

# Screens

## What is a Screen?

This engine uses a concept of "screens" to split up sections of a game into logical separate classes. Games tend to be heavy on code, so
screens are used as a means to organize different pieces of the game to keep the codebase maintainable and navigable. 
Screens have their own instance variables and `update`/`draw` methods that are crafted specifically for its owned part of the game code.

The `ScreenCoordinator` class, which details on can be found [here](./ScreensSubSections/screen-coordinator.md), is the most important `Screen` in the codebase,
as it's job is to "coordinate" which other `Screens` are loaded at which times based on what needs to happen in the game.

## What is the Screen class?

The `Screen` class is an abstract class provided by the engine, and all screens defined in the game are to extend it and implement its required methods
to ensure they are set up correctly.

## Screen class structure

All screens in this game extend the engine's `Screen` class, which is an abstract class requiring the methods `initialize`, `update`, and `draw`
to be implemented:

```java
public abstract class Screen {
    public abstract void initialize();
    public abstract void update(Keyboard keyboard);
    public abstract void draw(GraphicsHandler graphicsHandler);
}
```

The `ScreenCoordinator` class handles calling the `initialize`, `update`, and `draw` methods for you at the appropriate times in the game loop
for screens that it handles. `Screen` classes can load other screen themselves, in which case it is up to that `Screen` class to add it to
the game loop cycle properly (usually just by calling its `update` and `draw` calls as a part of its own cycle). The `initialize` method
"sets up" a screen and is usually called immediately after the screen is instantiated -- it is very similar to a constructor in this regard, however constructors
cannot be called again while it is often useful to call the `initialize` method again to "reset" a screen. An example of this is resetting a level from the beginning
by calling the associated screen's `initialize` method and letting it handle re-setting everything up.

All screens can detect keyboard input through the `Keyboard` class, and the
`draw` methods are always passed the `GraphicsHandler` class instance in order to allow painting to the engine's backing JPanel.

## How to add a new Screen class?

Start by making a new class in the `Screens` package, where all game screens are defined. From there, extend the engine's base `Screen` class and
implement its methods. Below is an example if an `InstructionsScreen` were to be created:

```java
public class InstructionsScreen extends Screen {

    public void initialize() {
        
    }   

    public void update(Keyboard keyboard) {

    }

    public void draw(GraphicsHandler graphicsHandler) {

    }      
}
```

From there, the code added to those methods should handle setting up the instructions screen resources,
the game logic for the instructions screen, and finally what graphics should be shown on the JPanel while the instruction screen
is loaded.

A way for this screen to be loaded will also need to be added to the game logic, by either adding it to the `ScreenCoordniator` or setting up an existing screen to handle it.
The `PlayLevelScreen` is the most bulky screen in this game, but it's a good example of how a screen can be loaded from another screen
(upon beating a level or dying in a level, the `LevelClearedScreen` or `LevelLoseScreen` is loaded up while the `PlayLevelScreen` is still active).
