README.md, before:

# SER-225-Game

## What is this?
This is a game created for Quinnipiac's SER225 Agile Development class.
Students will be paired up in teams for an entire semester, and will use agile development sprints to work further on this game.
This usually involves adding features and fixing bugs (I'm sure there are bugs...)

## How to run this project?
I used no external libraries for this, so you can clone this repo as is and run it out of the box.
I recommend using an IDE such as IntelliJ (I developed this game using it) or Eclipse to run this game.

The main method for the game is in the `Game` package > `Game.java` file.<br>
The main method for the map editor is in the `MapEditor` package > `MapEditor.java` file.

## Documentation
This project includes a GitHub pages website in the `docs` folder where the documentation resides.<br>
It can be accessed at [https://a-r-t.github.io/SER-225-Game/](https://a-r-t.github.io/SER-225-Game/).

Changes to content in the `docs` folder will not show up on the website unless they are pushed to the `master` branch.

## Credits
**Alex Thimineur**: Programmed the game, made the art.

**Joe White, Alex Hutman, Brian Carducci**: Quinnipiac Alumni that contributed to this repo directly and were very helpful,
let me bounce ideas off them, and gave me feedback.

**Professor Mark Hoffman & Professor Stefan Christov**: For giving me the opportunity to create this game for this
class. :)

Commit message:

Revamp repo (#57)
* updated collision and how current tile index is checked, updated map collision check response as well

* update map editor to be resizable and have options to show npcs/enemies/enchanced map tiles, add some helper functions, update collisions to use generic map entities for future expansion opportutnites

* players starting position on map can now be set to anything rather than having to specify a tile for more flexibility

* draw cat on title screen map

* update name of method

* update title screen map cat sprite, update map collisions to not check things against themselves, move player animation to a new method

* simplified if statement

* fixed tile retrieval bug, fixed swim animation not showing up, fixed collisions

* condensed code in play level screen, moved bug enemy to proper tile

* update map tile if animated no matter what, commenting

* major class constructor cleanup

* removed defauilt controls in Cat class because they're unneededA

* optimize imports

* website updates

* updated website, added new Frame constructor that doesn't require a delay param

* cleaning up some code, updating site more

* level state update (removing unused enum values), site updates

* updated last part of site

* animated tiles and currently active script are stored and kept track of to make camera update logic more efficient

* updated cat swimming graphic, updated site

* updated about page on site

* update site text

* updated site

* update site, include tile type water in collision handler method

* update comment, remove unused site asset

* fixed bug in map editor where window needed to be validated after menu strip is added

* update site

* update site

* fix site js image load

README.md, after:

# SER225 Platformer Game

## What is this?
This is a game created for Quinnipiac's SER225 Agile Development class.
Students will be paired up in teams for an entire semester, and will utilize agile development to work further on this game.
This usually involves adding features and fixing bugs (I'm sure there are bugs...)

## How to run this project?
I used no external libraries for this, so you can clone this repo as is and run it out of the box with Java (min version 8).
I recommend using an IDE such as IntelliJ or Eclipse to run this game.

The main method for the game is in the `Game` package > `Game.java` file.<br>
The main method for the map editor is in the `MapEditor` package > `MapEditor.java` file.

## Documentation
This project includes a GitHub pages website in the `docs` folder where the documentation resides.<br>
It can be accessed at [https://a-r-t.github.io/SER-225-Game/](https://a-r-t.github.io/SER-225-Game/).

Changes to content in the `docs` folder will not show up on the website unless they are pushed to the `master` branch.

## Credits
**Alex Thimineur**: Programmed the game, made the art.
