docs/GameEngine/game-engine.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Game Engine
has_children: true
nav_order: 4
permalink: /GameEngine
---

# Navigation Structure
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

# Game Engine

## What is the difference between a game and a game engine?

The difference between a particular game and a game engine (also called a game framework) is that "game logic" is specific to one game while a game engine is created
to be reused. The game engine is designed to create an environment from which a game can be made. Game engines typically have built in
functionality for loading resources (such as images), detecting user input (such as checking if a key on the keyboard is pressed),
and running the game through a cycled game loop that continually updates game logic and graphics rendered to the screen.

Most game developers do not write their own game engine, and instead use an existing one that has the features they require to
create their desired game, such as [Unity](https://unity.com/) or [Unreal](https://www.unrealengine.com/en-US/). Some game companies
have even written their own game engines which they reuse for many different games and continually improve upon it.

For this game, the engine was created from scratch using components from the Java Swing library (really just the JPanel) and everything else was
done using vanilla Java. While the engine itself is not "specific" to the platformer game genre, several other components were included
that fit nicely with platformer game logic.

## Overview of this game engine

The code architecture and design for this engine was inspired by [XNA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_XNA), Microsoft’s old game programming framework that they supported for
anyone to use to write games for the Xbox 360. Now it has been ported and released open source under the title [Monogame](https://www.monogame.net/)
since Microsoft discontinued support for it.

Below are some features of the game engine, which are defined and created in the `Engine` package.

{% comment %} 
    The Jekyll theme used [just-the-docs](https://pmarsceill.github.io/just-the-docs/) will auto populate this file with a table of contents
{% endcomment %}

Commit message:

Revamp repo (#57)
* updated collision and how current tile index is checked, updated map collision check response as well

* update map editor to be resizable and have options to show npcs/enemies/enchanced map tiles, add some helper functions, update collisions to use generic map entities for future expansion opportutnites

* players starting position on map can now be set to anything rather than having to specify a tile for more flexibility

* draw cat on title screen map

* update name of method

* update title screen map cat sprite, update map collisions to not check things against themselves, move player animation to a new method

* simplified if statement

* fixed tile retrieval bug, fixed swim animation not showing up, fixed collisions

* condensed code in play level screen, moved bug enemy to proper tile

* update map tile if animated no matter what, commenting

* major class constructor cleanup

* removed defauilt controls in Cat class because they're unneededA

* optimize imports

* website updates

* updated website, added new Frame constructor that doesn't require a delay param

* cleaning up some code, updating site more

* level state update (removing unused enum values), site updates

* updated last part of site

* animated tiles and currently active script are stored and kept track of to make camera update logic more efficient

* updated cat swimming graphic, updated site

* updated about page on site

* update site text

* updated site

* update site, include tile type water in collision handler method

* update comment, remove unused site asset

* fixed bug in map editor where window needed to be validated after menu strip is added

* update site

* update site

* fix site js image load

docs/GameEngine/game-engine.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Game Engine
has_children: true
nav_order: 4
permalink: /GameEngine
---

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

# Game Engine

## What is the difference between a game and a game engine?

The difference between a particular game and a game engine (also called a game framework) is that "game logic" is specific to one game while a game engine is created
to be reused. The game engine is designed to create an environment from which a game can be made. Game engines typically have built in
functionality for loading resources (such as images), detecting user input (such as checking if a key on the keyboard is pressed),
and running the game through a cycled game loop that continually updates game logic and renders graphics to the screen.

Most game developers do not write their own game engine, and instead use an existing one that has the features they require to
create their desired game, such as [Unity](https://unity.com/) or [Unreal Engine](https://www.unrealengine.com/en-US/). Many larger game companies
have written their own game engines, which is then used to create many different games, such as the famous [Source](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Source_(game_engine)) game engine created by [Valve](https://www.valvesoftware.com/en/).

For this game, the engine was created from scratch using components from the Java Swing library (really just the JPanel) and everything else was
done using vanilla Java. While the engine itself is not "specific" to the platformer game genre, several other components were included
that fit nicely with platformer game logic.

## Overview of this game engine

The code architecture and design for this engine was inspired by [XNA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microsoft_XNA), Microsoft’s old game programming framework that they supported for anyone to use to write games for the Xbox 360. 
While XNA is no longer supported by Microsoft and stopped receiving updates, the framework has been ported and released open source under the title [Monogame](https://www.monogame.net/).

Below are some features of the game engine, which are defined and created in the `Engine` package.

{% comment %} 
    The Jekyll theme used [just-the-docs](https://pmarsceill.github.io/just-the-docs/) will auto populate this file with a table of contents
{% endcomment %}
