docs/GameCodeDetails/game-code-details.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Game Code Details
nav_order: 5
has_children: true
permalink: /GameCodeDetails
---

# Navigation Structure
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

# Game Code Details

## How is this game made and how does it work?

Utilizing the supplied game engine, the game code "hooks" on to the engine's game loop through the use of the `ScreenCoordinator` class,
and from there the game is directed by the various `Screen` classes (which exist in the `Screens` package). The subsections
of this document will go over how this game is made and how everything works.

Before reading on, it is important to understand how the game engine works at a surface level as described in the documentation [here](../GameEngine/game-engine.md).

Below are documents which go over difference pieces of the game code:

{% comment %} 
    The Jekyll theme used [just-the-docs](https://pmarsceill.github.io/just-the-docs/) will auto populate this file with a table of contents
{% endcomment %}

Commit message:

Revamp repo (#57)
* updated collision and how current tile index is checked, updated map collision check response as well

* update map editor to be resizable and have options to show npcs/enemies/enchanced map tiles, add some helper functions, update collisions to use generic map entities for future expansion opportutnites

* players starting position on map can now be set to anything rather than having to specify a tile for more flexibility

* draw cat on title screen map

* update name of method

* update title screen map cat sprite, update map collisions to not check things against themselves, move player animation to a new method

* simplified if statement

* fixed tile retrieval bug, fixed swim animation not showing up, fixed collisions

* condensed code in play level screen, moved bug enemy to proper tile

* update map tile if animated no matter what, commenting

* major class constructor cleanup

* removed defauilt controls in Cat class because they're unneededA

* optimize imports

* website updates

* updated website, added new Frame constructor that doesn't require a delay param

* cleaning up some code, updating site more

* level state update (removing unused enum values), site updates

* updated last part of site

* animated tiles and currently active script are stored and kept track of to make camera update logic more efficient

* updated cat swimming graphic, updated site

* updated about page on site

* update site text

* updated site

* update site, include tile type water in collision handler method

* update comment, remove unused site asset

* fixed bug in map editor where window needed to be validated after menu strip is added

* update site

* update site

* fix site js image load

docs/GameCodeDetails/game-code-details.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Game Code Details
nav_order: 5
has_children: true
permalink: /GameCodeDetails
---

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

# Game Code Details

## How is this game made and how does it work?

Utilizing the supplied game engine, the game code "hooks" on to the engine's game loop through the use of the `ScreenCoordinator` class,
and from there the game is directed by the various `Screen` classes (which exist in the `Screens` package). The subsections
of this document will go over how this game is made and how everything works.

Before reading on, it is important to understand how the game's update and draw cycle works at a surface level, which is described in the documentation [here](../GameEngine/GameEngineSubSections/game-loop.md).

Below are documents which go over difference pieces of the game code:

{% comment %} 
    The Jekyll theme used [just-the-docs](https://pmarsceill.github.io/just-the-docs/) will auto populate this file with a table of contents
{% endcomment %}
