docs/GameCodeDetails/GameCodeDetailsSubSections/MapSubSections/enhanced-map-tiles.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Enhanced Map Tiles
nav_order: 7
parent: Map
grand_parent: Game Code Details
permalink: /GameCodeDetails/Map/EnhancedMapTiles
---

# Navigation Structure
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

# Enhanced Map Tiles

## What is an enhanced map tile?

An enhanced map tile (represented by the `EnhancedMapTile` class in the `Level` package) is a `MapEntity` subclass. The idea behind
this class is that it acts just like a `MapTile` does in every way, but with the ability to define its own `update` and `draw` logic
instead of just going with the `MapTile's` default logic. This allows a map tile to essentially do whatever it wants while still
being counted as a map tile, meaning the `Player` will still consider it during its collision checks based on the `EnhancedMapTile's` tile type. Like
every `MapEntity` subclass, an `EnhancedMapTile` during its `update` cycle will be given a reference to the `Player` instance,
so it is able to interact with the player directly.

And yes, I know the name "enhanced map tile" is dumb, I couldn't think of a better name to describe these and now I'm over it.

## Enhanced Map Tile Subclass

In the `EnhancedMapTiles` package, there are currently two subclasses of the `EnhancedMapTile` class -- `HorizontalMovingPlatform` and `EndLevelBox`.
Each one of these classes defines an enhanced map tile in the game, which can be seen in the game's one level.

## Adding a new enhanced map tile to the game

This is simple -- create a new class in the `EnhancedMapTiles` package, subclass the `EnhancedMapTile` class, and then just implement
desired logic from there. I recommend copying an existing enhanced map tile class as a "template" of sorts to help set up and design the enhanced map tile.

## Adding an enhanced map tile to a map

In a map subclass's `loadEnhancedMapTiles` method, enhanced map tiles can be defined and added to the map's enhanced map tile list. For example, in `TestMap`,
a `HorizontalMovingPlatform` and `EndLevelBox` are created and added to the enhanced map tile list:

```java
@Override
public ArrayList<EnhancedMapTile> loadEnhancedMapTiles() {
    ArrayList<EnhancedMapTile> enhancedMapTiles = new ArrayList<>();
    
    enhancedMapTiles.add(new HorizontalMovingPlatform(
            ImageLoader.load("GreenPlatform.png"), 
            getPositionByTileIndex(24, 6), 
            getPositionByTileIndex(27, 6), 
            TileType.JUMP_THROUGH_PLATFORM, 
            3, 
            new Rectangle(0, 6,16,4), 
            Direction.RIGHT
    ));
    
    enhancedMapTiles.add(new EndLevelBox(
            getPositionByTileIndex(32, 7),
    ));
    
    return enhancedMapTiles;
}
```

The horizontal moving platform has a pretty beefy constructor, but don't let that overwhelm you, it's all just information needed to set it up correctly. 

## Enhanced map tiles currently in game

### Horizontal Moving Platform

![horizontal-moving-platform.png](../../../assets/images/horizontal-moving-platform.png)

This enhanced map tile is defined by the `HorizontalMovingPlatform` class. It is what it sounds like -- a platform that moves
horizontally back and forth. The constructor for this class definitely has too much going on, but the goal was to create a platform
a more generic class where any image could be used as the platform. The level currently uses the above simple green platform image.

For this class, a start and stop position are passed in, and the platform will just continually go back and forth. The platform in game
is set to a tile type of `JUMP_THROUGH_PLATFORM` which allows the player to stand on it but also allows the player to jump through it from below.

While the player is standing on the platform, the `HorizontalMovingPlatform` class detects this in its `update` method and will adjust
the player's x position to move along with the platform.

![player-on-moving-platform.gif](../../../assets/images/player-on-moving-platform.gif)

Not going to lie, getting this to work was a lot tougher than I expected and required me to rewrite the entire collision handling system
at one point. I'm glad I decided to get this working, as it revealed a lot of flaws in the original collision handling code, due
to decimals screwing everything up (I'm telling you, it's a lot harder than it sounds!!!).

Also, if the platform's tile type is changed to `NOT_PASSABLE`, it will push the player if the player is in the way of it while it moves.

The image file for the green platform is `GreenPlatform.png`.

### End Level Box

![end-level-box.gif](../../../assets/images/end-level-box.gif)

This enhanced map tile is defined by the `EndLevelBox` class. Its job is simple upon being touched by the player, it will
set the player's "level state" to `LEVEL_COMPLETED`, which tells the player to do its win animation and whatever else may follow
the level being completed afterwards.

```java
if (intersects(player)) {
    player.setLevelState(LevelState.LEVEL_COMPLETED);
}
```

The image file for the end level box is `GoldBox.png`.

Commit message:

Revamp repo (#57)
* updated collision and how current tile index is checked, updated map collision check response as well

* update map editor to be resizable and have options to show npcs/enemies/enchanced map tiles, add some helper functions, update collisions to use generic map entities for future expansion opportutnites

* players starting position on map can now be set to anything rather than having to specify a tile for more flexibility

* draw cat on title screen map

* update name of method

* update title screen map cat sprite, update map collisions to not check things against themselves, move player animation to a new method

* simplified if statement

* fixed tile retrieval bug, fixed swim animation not showing up, fixed collisions

* condensed code in play level screen, moved bug enemy to proper tile

* update map tile if animated no matter what, commenting

* major class constructor cleanup

* removed defauilt controls in Cat class because they're unneededA

* optimize imports

* website updates

* updated website, added new Frame constructor that doesn't require a delay param

* cleaning up some code, updating site more

* level state update (removing unused enum values), site updates

* updated last part of site

* animated tiles and currently active script are stored and kept track of to make camera update logic more efficient

* updated cat swimming graphic, updated site

* updated about page on site

* update site text

* updated site

* update site, include tile type water in collision handler method

* update comment, remove unused site asset

* fixed bug in map editor where window needed to be validated after menu strip is added

* update site

* update site

* fix site js image load

docs/GameCodeDetails/GameCodeDetailsSubSections/MapSubSections/enhanced-map-tiles.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Enhanced Map Tiles
nav_order: 7
parent: Map
grand_parent: Game Code Details
permalink: /GameCodeDetails/Map/EnhancedMapTiles
---

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

# Enhanced Map Tiles

## What is an enhanced map tile?

An enhanced map tile (represented by the `EnhancedMapTile` class in the `Level` package) is a `MapEntity` subclass. The idea behind
this class is that it acts just like a `MapTile` does in every way, but with the ability to define its own `update` and `draw` logic
instead of just going with the `MapTile's` default logic. This allows a map tile to essentially do whatever it wants while still
being counted as a map tile, meaning the `Player` will still consider it during its collision checks based on the `EnhancedMapTile's` tile type. Like
every `MapEntity` subclass, an `EnhancedMapTile` during its `update` cycle will be given a reference to the `Player` instance,
so it is able to interact with the player directly.

And yes, I know the name "enhanced map tile" is dumb, I couldn't think of a better name to describe these at the time and now I'm over it.

## Enhanced Map Tile Subclass

In the `EnhancedMapTiles` package, there are currently two subclasses of the `EnhancedMapTile` class -- `HorizontalMovingPlatform` and `EndLevelBox`.
Each one of these classes defines an enhanced map tile in the game, which can be seen in the `TestMap` map.

## Adding a new enhanced map tile to the game

This is simple -- create a new class in the `EnhancedMapTiles` package, subclass the `EnhancedMapTile` class, and then just implement
desired logic from there. I recommend copying an existing enhanced map tile class as a "template" of sorts to help set up and design the enhanced map tile.

## Adding an enhanced map tile to a map

In a map subclass's `loadEnhancedMapTiles` method, enhanced map tiles can be defined and added to the map's enhanced map tile list. For example, in `TestMap`,
a `HorizontalMovingPlatform` and `EndLevelBox` are created and added to the enhanced map tile list:

```java
@Override
public ArrayList<EnhancedMapTile> loadEnhancedMapTiles() {
    ArrayList<EnhancedMapTile> enhancedMapTiles = new ArrayList<>();

    enhancedMapTiles.add(new HorizontalMovingPlatform(
            ImageLoader.load("GreenPlatform.png"),
            getMapTile(24, 6).getLocation(),
            getMapTile(27, 6).getLocation(),
            TileType.JUMP_THROUGH_PLATFORM,
            3,
            new Rectangle(0, 6,16,4),
            Direction.RIGHT
    ));

    enhancedMapTiles.add(new EndLevelBox(
            getMapTile(32, 7).getLocation()
    ));

    return enhancedMapTiles;
}
```

The horizontal moving platform has a pretty beefy constructor, but don't let that overwhelm you, it's all just information needed to set it up correctly. 

## Enhanced map tiles currently in game

### Horizontal Moving Platform

![horizontal-moving-platform.png](../../../assets/images/horizontal-moving-platform.png)

This enhanced map tile is defined by the `HorizontalMovingPlatform` class. It is what it sounds like -- a platform that moves horizontally back and forth. 
The constructor for this class definitely has too much going on, but the goal was to create a more generic class where any image could be used as the platform. The level currently uses the above simple green platform image.

For this class, two locations are given to its constructor, and the platform will just continually move back and forth between those two points. The platform in game
is set to a tile type of `JUMP_THROUGH_PLATFORM` which allows the player to stand on it but also allows the player to jump through it from below.

If the player is standing on the platform, the `HorizontalMovingPlatform` class will perform special logic in its `update` method that will adjust
the player's x position to move along with the platform.

![player-on-moving-platform.gif](../../../assets/images/player-on-moving-platform.gif)

Not going to lie, getting this to work was a lot tougher than I expected and required me to rewrite the entire collision handling system
at one point. I'm glad I decided to get this working, as it revealed a lot of flaws in the original collision handling code, due
to decimals screwing everything up (I'm telling you, it's a lot harder than it sounds!!!).

Also, if the platform's tile type is changed to `NOT_PASSABLE`, it will push the player if the player is in the way of it while it moves.

The image file for the green platform is `GreenPlatform.png`.

### End Level Box

![end-level-box.gif](../../../assets/images/end-level-box.gif)

This enhanced map tile is defined by the `EndLevelBox` class. Its job is simple: upon being touched by the player, it will
set the player's "level state" to `LEVEL_COMPLETED`. This tells the player to do its win animation and whatever else may follow the level being completed.

```java
if (intersects(player)) {
    player.setLevelState(LevelState.LEVEL_COMPLETED);
}
```

The image file for the end level box is `GoldBox.png`.
