docs/GameCodeDetails/GameCodeDetailsSubSections/MapSubSections/map-class-overview.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Map Class Overview
nav_order: 1
parent: Map
grand_parent: Game Code Details
permalink: /GameCodeDetails/Map/MapClassOverview
---

# Navigation Structure
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

# Map Class Overview

## Map Resources Setup

The `Map` class does A LOT of setup upon instantiation for resources such as the camera, enemies, map tile structure, etc.
Since the `Map` class handles so many different aspects of the platformer game logic, getting the setup step perfect is key
for a successful platformer level. Most of the game logic in the `Map` class goes towards this setup step.

The `Map` class is `abstract`, meaning it cannot be instantiated directly (but a subclass can). The constructor for the `Map` 
class has three key parameters defined:
- **mapFileName** -- the map file name that defines the tile layout and map dimensions, which are located in the `MapFiles` folder of this project
- **tileset** -- which tiles this map uses (along with the map file will determine which map graphics are loaded in which locations)
- **playerStartTile** -- the x and y index of the map tile the player should start on at the beginning of a level

From there, the map does several setup steps to get all of its resources in order and ready to go for the platformer game:
1. Read in map file correctly lay out the map tile graphics to the appropriate locations (process detailed [here](./map-tiles-and-tilesets.md))
1. Setup enemies (read more about enemies [here](./enemies.md))
1. Setup enhanced map tiles (read more about enhanced map tiles [here](./enhanced-map-tiles.md))
1. Setup NPCs (read more about NPCs [here](./npcs.md))
1. Setup camera which handles what parts of the map are shown on the screen at any given time (read more about the camera [here](./map-camera.md))

## Map Class Methods

The `Map` class has A LOT of methods, but most of them are very simple (also many of them are just getters).
Nearly all of these methods will be covered in the other setup pages linked above, as most are directly involved with
the setup step. Something to note is that the methods `loadEnemies`, `loadEnhancedMapTiles`, and `loadNPCs` are all intended
to be overridden by a subclass of the `Map` class (aka a class that extends from the `Map` class).

The `update` method is very simple, as the `Camera` class does most of the work updating the map, however
there are two very important methods it does call itself: `adjustMovementX` and `adjustMovementY`. These are covered
in the `Player` class documentation [here](../player.md), and are critical to allowing the map to properly "scroll" as the player moves.
These methods were honestly such a PITA to get working correctly in conjunction with the `Player` class's movement and the `Camera` class's
game logic so I highly recommend not trying to edit them because one tiny change will most likely cause the entire platformer game to break.

The `draw` method just tells the `Camera` class to `draw` what should be shown of the map to the screen.

## Map Subclasses

Game maps are defined by subclassing the `Map` class. These are found in the `Map` package.
The level's map class (the only level in the game) is `TestMap`. 

Each `Map` subclass must satisfy the super class and specify the map file name, tileset, and player start tile (as mentioned earlier in the
[map resources setup](#map-resources-setup)) section.

`TestMap` defines a map file of `test_map.txt`, the `CommonTileset` class as its tileset choice (more on tilesets [here](./map-tiles-and-tilesets.md)),
and a player start tile as tile index (1, 11).

```java
public TestMap() {
    super("test_map.txt", new CommonTileset(), new Point(1, 11));
}
```

Each map subclass can also override the `loadEnemies`, `loadEnhancedMapTiles`, and `loadNPCs` in order to define
[enemies](./enemies.md), [enhanced map tiles](./enhanced-map-tiles.md), and [npcs](./npcs.md) for a map.

For example, in `TestMap`, the `loadEnemies` override method looks like this:

```java
@Override
public ArrayList<Enemy> loadEnemies() {
    ArrayList<Enemy> enemies = new ArrayList<>();
    enemies.add(new BugEnemy(getPositionByTileIndex(15, 9), this, Direction.LEFT));
    enemies.add(new DinosaurEnemy(getPositionByTileIndex(19, 1).addY(2), getPositionByTileIndex(22, 1).addY(2), this, Direction.RIGHT));
    return enemies;
}
```

This adds two enemies to the map -- the [bug enemy](./enemies.md#bug-enemy) (`BugEnemy` class) and the [dinosaur enemy](./enemies.md#dinosaur-enemy) (`DinosaurEnemy` class).
The `getPositionByTileIndex` `Map` method is used to make it easy to place the enemy on a specific tile index in the map by
getting the tile at that index's absolute position in terms of pixels so it is placed in the right spot.

Commit message:

Revamp repo (#57)
* updated collision and how current tile index is checked, updated map collision check response as well

* update map editor to be resizable and have options to show npcs/enemies/enchanced map tiles, add some helper functions, update collisions to use generic map entities for future expansion opportutnites

* players starting position on map can now be set to anything rather than having to specify a tile for more flexibility

* draw cat on title screen map

* update name of method

* update title screen map cat sprite, update map collisions to not check things against themselves, move player animation to a new method

* simplified if statement

* fixed tile retrieval bug, fixed swim animation not showing up, fixed collisions

* condensed code in play level screen, moved bug enemy to proper tile

* update map tile if animated no matter what, commenting

* major class constructor cleanup

* removed defauilt controls in Cat class because they're unneededA

* optimize imports

* website updates

* updated website, added new Frame constructor that doesn't require a delay param

* cleaning up some code, updating site more

* level state update (removing unused enum values), site updates

* updated last part of site

* animated tiles and currently active script are stored and kept track of to make camera update logic more efficient

* updated cat swimming graphic, updated site

* updated about page on site

* update site text

* updated site

* update site, include tile type water in collision handler method

* update comment, remove unused site asset

* fixed bug in map editor where window needed to be validated after menu strip is added

* update site

* update site

* fix site js image load

docs/GameCodeDetails/GameCodeDetailsSubSections/MapSubSections/map-class-overview.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Map Class Overview
nav_order: 1
parent: Map
grand_parent: Game Code Details
permalink: /GameCodeDetails/Map/MapClassOverview
---

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

# Map Class Overview

## Map Resources Setup

The `Map` class does A LOT of setup upon instantiation for resources such as the camera, enemies, map tile structure, etc.
Since the `Map` class handles so many different aspects of the platformer game logic, getting the setup step perfect is key
for a successful platformer level. Most of the game logic in the `Map` class goes towards this setup step.

The `Map` class is `abstract`, meaning it cannot be instantiated without a subclass. 
The constructor for the `Map` class has two parameters defined:
- **mapFileName** -- the map file name that defines the tile layout and map dimensions, which are text files located in the `MapFiles` folder of this project
- **tileset** -- which tiles this map uses -- this along with the map file will determine which map tile graphics are loaded in which locations

From there, the map does several setup steps to get all of its resources in order and ready to go for the platformer game:
1. Read in map file (read more about the map file [here](./map-file.md)) 
1. Create map tiles and place them in the appropriate locations (process detailed [here](./map-tiles-and-tilesets.md))
1. Setup enemies (read more about enemies [here](./enemies.md))
1. Setup enhanced map tiles (read more about enhanced map tiles [here](./enhanced-map-tiles.md))
1. Setup NPCs (read more about NPCs [here](./npcs.md))
1. Setup camera which handles what parts of the map are shown on the screen at any given time (read more about the camera [here](./map-camera.md))

## Map Class Methods

The `Map` class has a lot of methods, but most of them are very simple, and many of them are just getters.
Nearly all of these methods will be covered in the other setup pages linked above, as most are directly involved with
the setup step. The methods `loadEnemies`, `loadEnhancedMapTiles`, and `loadNPCs` are all intended
to be overridden by a subclass of the `Map` class.

The `update` method is very simple, as the `Camera` class does most of the work updating the map, however
there are two very important methods it does call itself: `adjustMovementX` and `adjustMovementY`. These are covered
in the `Player` class documentation [here](../player.md), and are critical to allowing the map to properly "scroll" as the player moves.
These methods were honestly such a PITA to get working correctly in conjunction with the `Player` class's movement and the `Camera` class's
game logic. I do not recommend editing them because one tiny change will most likely cause the game's movement and collisions to break.

The `draw` method just tells the `Camera` class to `draw` what should be shown of the map to the screen.

## Map Subclasses

Game maps are defined by subclassing the `Map` class. These are found in the `Maps` package.
Currently, `TestMap` is the only map in the game that plays out a level. There is also `TitleScreenMap` which just acts as the background to the title screen.

Each `Map` subclass must satisfy the super class and specify the map file name and tileset. 
It is also a good idea to set the `playerStartLocation` in the map subclass's constructor.

`TestMap` defines a map file of `test_map.txt`, and the `CommonTileset` class as its tileset choice (more on tilesets [here](./map-tiles-and-tilesets.md)),

```java
public TestMap() {
    super("test_map.txt", new CommonTileset());
    this.playerStartPosition = getMapTile(2, 11).getLocation();
}
```

It also sets the `playerStartLocation` variable to a specific location, which is what tells the game where to start the player at in the map when it's first loaded.

Each map subclass can also override the `loadEnemies`, `loadEnhancedMapTiles`, and `loadNPCs` methods in order to define
[enemies](./enemies.md), [enhanced map tiles](./enhanced-map-tiles.md), and [npcs](./npcs.md) for a map.

For example, in `TestMap`, the `loadEnemies` override method looks like this:

```java
@Override
public ArrayList<Enemy> loadEnemies() {
    ArrayList<Enemy> enemies = new ArrayList<>();
    enemies.add(new BugEnemy(getMapTile(15, 8).getLocation().addY(20), Direction.LEFT));
    enemies.add(new DinosaurEnemy(getMapTile(19, 1).getLocation().addY(2), getMapTile(22, 1).getLocation().addY(2), Direction.RIGHT));
    return enemies;
}
```

This adds two enemies to the map -- the [bug enemy](./enemies.md#bug-enemy) (`BugEnemy` class) and the [dinosaur enemy](./enemies.md#dinosaur-enemy) (`DinosaurEnemy` class).
The `getMapTile` `Map` method is used to make it easier to place the enemy on a specific tile index in the map by
getting the tile at that index's location.
