docs/GameCodeDetails/GameCodeDetailsSubSections/MapSubSections/map-camera.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Map Camera
nav_order: 4
parent: Map
grand_parent: Game Code Details
permalink: /GameCodeDetails/Map/MapCamera
---

# Navigation Structure
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

# Map Camera

## What is the map camera?

The map camera, which is represented by the `Camera` class in the `Level` package, is the class responsible for keeping track of
which section of a map needs to be shown/updated during a specific time period. If you have ever played a 3D video game, you will have an
idea of what a game map's camera is -- often times you are given the ability in these games to rotate it yourself to see different
parts of the map as you play. In a 2D world, the camera is a lot simpler, as there are only four movement directions -- up, down, left, and right.

Take a look at the below gif:

![playing-level.gif](../../../assets/images/playing-level.gif)

As the player moves across the map, it's the `Camera` class's job to change what pieces of the map are shown/updated. This is used to give
the appearance that the map is "scrolling" as the player moves. In reality, once the player hits the half way point on the screen (both x direction and y direction),
instead of the player moving forward, the camera actually moves to show more of the map. Once the player reaches an end of the screen,
the camera just stays in place, and in that time the player can move freely until the need to move the camera comes up again.

## How does camera movement work?

Think of the camera as a defined rectangle, with x, y, width, and height attributes. The width and height of the camera are set to the
entire size of the screen.

Below is the entire map image, which is made up of individual tiles. The entire map does NOT fit on the screen all at once.
![entire-map.PNG](../../../assets/images/entire-map.PNG)

 
The camera starts at x and y (0, 0) when the map is first loaded. Upon starting the game, the camera moves
to match where the player's start tile is (the player is the cat). The screen size is around 800x600, so you can think of the camera
as the rectangle on this map image. The rectangle shows that a piece of the entire map is being shown to the player on the screen
at a time:

![entire-map-with-camera-1.png](../../../assets/images/entire-map-with-camera-1.png)

As the player moves throughout the map, the camera follows it to show different pieces of the map.

![entire-map-with-camera-1.png](../../../assets/images/entire-map-with-camera-2.png)


## Active Map Resources

The camera is also responsible for determining which map tiles, enemies, enhanced map tiles (like the floating platform), and npcs
are a part of the current map that is being shown, meaning those items need to be a part of the `update` and `draw` cycle. In order to not
waste computing resources, the camera is constantly checking if a map item is not in the "updatable" area (such as an enemy has gone too far off-screen).
This is important as wasting time updating and drawing items that do not affect the player can affect FPS and cause the game to slow down,
which is never ideal. 

Map items that are to be included in the `update` and `draw` cycle at a given time are considered "active".
The `Map` class exposes three methods for `getActiveEnemies`, `getActiveEnhancedMapTiles` and `getActiveNPCs` that allow other classes
to retrieve this information. These contain a subsection of each map resource that are currently active, and can be used
for things like collision checking to prevent from having to check EVERY resource in the game. Looking at the above images of the camera example on the entire map image,
it's more apparent how only certain enemies that are in the camera's range need to be included in the `update` and `draw` cycles at
any given time.

The variable `UPDATE_OFF_SCREEN_RANGE` determines the "tile range" that a map resource can be off screen until it is considered inactive.
It is currently set to 4, so if any map resource is more than 5 tiles away off screen, it will be removed from the game cycle until
it comes back into range. Some resources (specifically enemies) have the ability to respawn, meaning they will go back to their
starting location if they were previously inactive and then became active again.

The `Camera` class's `loadActiveEnemies`, `loadActiveEnhancedMapTiles`, and `loadActiveNPCs` methods are called each game loop cycle (each frame)
to determine which map entities are currently active and which ones are not. Frankly, the code for these methods is an abomination
because I couldn't find an easy way to combine them all, so it's three long-ish separate methods that all do relatively the same exact thing
and contain identical code (just on different entity lists).

Commit message:

Revamp repo (#57)
* updated collision and how current tile index is checked, updated map collision check response as well

* update map editor to be resizable and have options to show npcs/enemies/enchanced map tiles, add some helper functions, update collisions to use generic map entities for future expansion opportutnites

* players starting position on map can now be set to anything rather than having to specify a tile for more flexibility

* draw cat on title screen map

* update name of method

* update title screen map cat sprite, update map collisions to not check things against themselves, move player animation to a new method

* simplified if statement

* fixed tile retrieval bug, fixed swim animation not showing up, fixed collisions

* condensed code in play level screen, moved bug enemy to proper tile

* update map tile if animated no matter what, commenting

* major class constructor cleanup

* removed defauilt controls in Cat class because they're unneededA

* optimize imports

* website updates

* updated website, added new Frame constructor that doesn't require a delay param

* cleaning up some code, updating site more

* level state update (removing unused enum values), site updates

* updated last part of site

* animated tiles and currently active script are stored and kept track of to make camera update logic more efficient

* updated cat swimming graphic, updated site

* updated about page on site

* update site text

* updated site

* update site, include tile type water in collision handler method

* update comment, remove unused site asset

* fixed bug in map editor where window needed to be validated after menu strip is added

* update site

* update site

* fix site js image load

docs/GameCodeDetails/GameCodeDetailsSubSections/MapSubSections/map-camera.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Map Camera
nav_order: 4
parent: Map
grand_parent: Game Code Details
permalink: /GameCodeDetails/Map/MapCamera
---

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

# Map Camera

## What is the map camera?

The map camera, which is represented by the `Camera` class in the `Level` package, is the class responsible for keeping track of
which section of a map needs to be shown/updated during a specific time period. If you have ever played a 3D video game, you will have an
idea of what a game's map camera is -- often times you are given the ability in those games to rotate the camera at will to see different
parts of the map as you play. In a 2D world, the camera is a lot simpler, as there are only four movement directions -- up, down, left, and right.

Take a look at the below gif:

![playing-level.gif](../../../assets/images/playing-level.gif)

As the player moves across the map, it's the `Camera` class's job to change what pieces of the map are shown/updated. This is used to give
the appearance that the map is "scrolling" as the player moves. In reality, once the player hits the half way point on the screen (both x direction and y direction),
instead of the player moving forward, the camera actually moves to show more of the map -- when this is happening, you'll notice that the player doesn't leave the center of the screen. Once the player reaches an end of the map and the camera has no more to scroll through, the camera just stays in place, and the player can move freely around the screen.

## How does camera movement work?

Think of the camera as a defined rectangle, with x, y, width, and height attributes. The width and height of the camera are set to the
entire size of the screen.

Below is the entire map image, which is made up of individual tiles. The entire map does NOT fit on the screen all at once.
![entire-map.PNG](../../../assets/images/entire-map.PNG)

 
The camera starts at x and y (0, 0) when the map is first loaded. Upon starting the game, the camera moves
to match where the player's start location is (the player is the cat). The screen size is around 800x600, so you can think of the camera
as the black rectangle on the below image of the map. The rectangle shows that only a piece of the entire map is being shown on the screen
at any given time:

![entire-map-with-camera-1.png](../../../assets/images/entire-map-with-camera-1.png)

As the player moves throughout the map, the camera follows it to show different pieces of the map.

![entire-map-with-camera-1.png](../../../assets/images/entire-map-with-camera-2.png)


## Active Map Resources

The camera is also responsible for determining which map tiles, enemies, enhanced map tiles (like the floating platform), and npcs
are a part of the current area of the map that is being shown, meaning those entities need to be a part of the `update` and `draw` cycle. In order to not
waste computing resources, the camera is constantly checking if a map entity is not in the "active" area (such as an enemy that is too far outside of the camera's bounds).
This is important as wasting time updating and drawing items that do not affect the player can negatively affect FPS and cause the game to slow down.

Map entities that are to be included in the `update` and `draw` cycle at any given time are considered "active".
The `Map` class exposes three methods for `getActiveEnemies`, `getActiveEnhancedMapTiles` and `getActiveNPCs` for other classes to use. 
These methods contain a subsection of each map entity resource that is currently active. This is useful for certain pieces of the game logic, such as collision detection -- instead of having to check against every entity in the game, only a subsection of the entities will be checked against, which saves time and computing resources. 
Looking at the above images of the camera example on the entire map image, it's more apparent how only certain enemies that are in the camera's range need to be included in the `update` and `draw` cycles at any given time. If you look at the first image, there's no reason to update the dinosaur enemy during that time, as it is way off screen and the player won't be interacting with it until they move a bit.

The variable `UPDATE_OFF_SCREEN_RANGE` determines the "tile range" threshold that a map resource can be off-screen until it is considered inactive.
It is currently set to 4, so if any map resource is more than 5 tiles away off-screen, it will be removed from the game cycle until
it comes back into range. Some resources (specifically enemies) have the ability to respawn, meaning they will go back to their
starting location if they were previously inactive and then became active again. This can be toggled on or off by changing an entity's `isRespawnable` instance variable.
Entities also have an `isUpdateOffScreen` instance variable that when toggled on will keep the entity in the update cycle regardless of where it is on the map.
This could be useful for something like a boss battle to prevent the player from being able to break the boss by moving the camera too far away.

The `Camera` class's `loadActiveEnemies`, `loadActiveEnhancedMapTiles`, and `loadActiveNPCs` methods are called each game loop cycle (each frame)
to determine which map entities are currently active and which ones are not. Frankly, the code for these methods is an abomination -- it's three long-ish separate methods that all do relatively the same exact thing and contain near identical code for separate entity lists. 
I tried to modularize the algorithm, but Java was fighting against me too much and I just stopped caring.
