docs/GameEngine/GameEngineSubSections/loading-images.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Loading Images
parent: Game Engine
nav_order: 4
permalink: /GameEngine/LoadingImages
---

# Navigation Structure
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

# Loading Images

## Reading images into the game

The engine's `ImageLoader` class has methods that will read an image into the game into Java's `BufferedImage` data type.

The Image Loader provides two methods:
- **load** -- reads an image into the game
- **loadSubImage** -- reads a piece of an image into the game

Pass the method an image file and it will read it in, no questions asked.

## Resources Directory

The `ImageLoader` class will look for image files relative to the directory defined as the `RESOURCES_PATH`,
which is set in the `Config` class. By default, it is set to a `Resources/` directory at the root of the project.
If an image is placed in that `Resources/` directory named "cat.png", the file name can be supplied directly
to the `ImageLoader` methods.

```java
BufferedImage catImage = ImageLoader.load("cat.png");
```

It is fine to add subfolders to the `Resource` directory, just be sure to include that in the path to the image.
For example, if there was a folder named `CatPics` inside the `Resources` folder, the path would look like this:

```java
BufferedImage catImage = ImageLoader.load("CatPics/cat.png");
```

### Changing resources directory

You are free to change the value of the `RESOURCE_PATH` variable in the `Config` class to change the location
of the folder that the `ImageLoader` will look for images in. It is not advisable to remove this restriction as a game
generally needs to guarantee that all of its assets are where they should be in order to run properly, and keeping them in one
base location limits room for error.

## Image Transparency

The "transparent" color of an image is a particular color in an image that is desired to be "invisible", meaning it will not be included
when the image is loaded into the game. Every sprite in the base game uses the color magenta (RGB 255 0 255) as its transparent color,
as that color is ugly and very rarely, if ever, used by any image. This magenta color is set as the default transparent color by
the `TRANSPARENT_COLOR` variable in the `Config` class.

For example, the following cat image used in game has its background set as magenta:

![cat-sprite.png](../../assets/images/cat-sprite.png)

When loading this image into the game, the transparent color of magenta is set, meaning in game, the magenta color will not be shown,
allowing it to blend in with whatever color is shown in the background of it:

![game-screen-3.png](../../assets/images/game-screen-3.png)

Before you ask "why can't you just use a tool like photoshop to add a transparency to an image", the answer is that it is not advisable to do this
for games because it bloats the file size (leading to longer load times), takes additional time, and does not always work out as expected (especially with Java's limited image loading capabilities).

If you have an image file that requires a different transparent color, the `ImageLoader` class has alternate methods
to allow for a transparent color to be specified instead of just using the default one.

```java
// sets transparent color to blue
BufferedImage catImage = ImageLoader.load("cat.png", Color.blue);
```

### Changing default transparent color

A new color can be set as the default transparent color by changing the `TRANSPARENT_COLOR` variable in the `Config` class.

Commit message:

Revamp repo (#57)
* updated collision and how current tile index is checked, updated map collision check response as well

* update map editor to be resizable and have options to show npcs/enemies/enchanced map tiles, add some helper functions, update collisions to use generic map entities for future expansion opportutnites

* players starting position on map can now be set to anything rather than having to specify a tile for more flexibility

* draw cat on title screen map

* update name of method

* update title screen map cat sprite, update map collisions to not check things against themselves, move player animation to a new method

* simplified if statement

* fixed tile retrieval bug, fixed swim animation not showing up, fixed collisions

* condensed code in play level screen, moved bug enemy to proper tile

* update map tile if animated no matter what, commenting

* major class constructor cleanup

* removed defauilt controls in Cat class because they're unneededA

* optimize imports

* website updates

* updated website, added new Frame constructor that doesn't require a delay param

* cleaning up some code, updating site more

* level state update (removing unused enum values), site updates

* updated last part of site

* animated tiles and currently active script are stored and kept track of to make camera update logic more efficient

* updated cat swimming graphic, updated site

* updated about page on site

* update site text

* updated site

* update site, include tile type water in collision handler method

* update comment, remove unused site asset

* fixed bug in map editor where window needed to be validated after menu strip is added

* update site

* update site

* fix site js image load

docs/GameEngine/GameEngineSubSections/loading-images.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Loading Images
parent: Game Engine
nav_order: 4
permalink: /GameEngine/LoadingImages
---

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

# Loading Images

## Reading images into the game

The engine's `ImageLoader` class has methods that will read an image into the game into Java's `BufferedImage` data type.

The Image Loader provides two methods:
- **load** -- reads an image into the game
- **loadSubImage** -- reads a piece of an image into the game

Pass either method an image file and it will read it in.

## Resources Directory

The `ImageLoader` class will look for image files relative to the directory defined as the `RESOURCES_PATH`,
which is set in the `Config` class. By default, it is set to a `Resources/` directory at the root of the project.
If an image is placed in that `Resources/` directory named "cat.png", the file name can be supplied directly
to the `ImageLoader` methods.

```java
BufferedImage catImage = ImageLoader.load("cat.png");
```

It is fine to add subfolders to the `Resource` directory, just be sure to include that in the path to the image.
For example, if there was a folder named `CatPics` inside the `Resources` folder, the path would look like this:

```java
BufferedImage catImage = ImageLoader.load("CatPics/cat.png");
```

### Changing resources directory

You are free to change the value of the `RESOURCE_PATH` variable in the `Config` class to change the location
of the folder that the `ImageLoader` will look for images in. It is not advisable to remove this restriction as a game
generally needs to guarantee that all of its assets are where they should be in order to run properly, and keeping them in one
base location limits room for error.

## Image Transparency

The "transparent" color of an image is a particular color in an image that is desired to be "invisible", meaning it will not be included
when the image is loaded into the game. Every sprite in the base game uses the color magenta (RGB 255 0 255) as its transparent color,
as that color is ugly and very rarely, if ever, used by any image. This magenta color is set as the default transparent color by
the `TRANSPARENT_COLOR` variable in the `Config` class.

For example, the following cat image used in game has its background set as magenta:

![cat-sprite.png](../../assets/images/cat-sprite.png)

When loading this image into the game, magenta is set as the transparent color, meaning in game, the magenta color will not be shown.
This allows for graphics to be drawn on top of each other without having to worry about unused background space in the image.

![game-screen-3.png](../../assets/images/game-screen-3.png)

If you're wondering why I didn't just load up a program like PhotoShop and create an alpha channel for image transparency,
it's because I'm not very experience with image editing, and those tools are massive overkill for working with tiny pixel art images.
It's a lot faster and easier to load up an image in Microsoft Paint and fill the background in.

If you have an image file that requires a different transparent color other than magenta (R255 G0 B255), the `ImageLoader` class has alternate methods
to allow for a transparent color to be specified instead of just using the default one.

```java
// sets transparent color to blue
BufferedImage catImage = ImageLoader.load("cat.png", Color.blue);
```

### Changing default transparent color

A new color can be set as the default transparent color by changing the `TRANSPARENT_COLOR` variable in the `Config` class.
I don't advise doing this as every image in the game currently is setup to use magenta as the transparent color, but the option to change it is there.
